# Neil Linehan Portfolio
Here is a collection of coding projects I have worked on over the years, either during my education, for small work projects, or otherwise. I have uploaded various projects that tackle repetitive tasks, model physical phenomena, or perform data science analysis.

# Links to notebooks with summaries:
## [DTL interpolation toolkit](https://github.com/neillinehan/NeilLinehanPortfolio/blob/main/dtl_data_interpolation_toolkit.ipynb):
At work, I frequently need to transfer data into a spreadsheet. This compact collection of functions enables the user to input data from various years, often with gaps, and returns it in a format that can be easily copied and pasted directly into a spreadsheet with years as columns. It’s a tool designed to optimize a specific repetitive task. Additionally, it includes a simple polynomial regression using sklearn to fit the reported data. This feature allows the user to obtain a Google Sheets or Excel-ready cell formula to calculate the missing years directly in the cell.

## [Omaha Food Network Traffic Flows](https://github.com/neillinehan/NeilLinehanPortfolio/blob/main/omaha_food_county_network.ipynb):
In this project, I investigated available commodity transport data available from the Bureau of Transportation Statistics and the U.S. Department of Transportation to determine where my city, Omaha Nebraska, gets its food from. Using the data and all open-source libraries, I generated a traffic flow map showing most likely paths taken by trucks transporting foodstuffs to the Omaha region. Although other research has been done using the available data to generate food flow maps between regions and counties, none to my knowledge have used the data to generate traffic flow maps. To plot the road networks the first step was to convert the FAF5 model network geodatabase into a graph with a format recognized by the OSMnx library. After this conversion, I then converted the generated graph into a shapefile to be used in other notebooks. I then used Networkx to find the nearest node to a representative point with the CFS area polygons. I found the shortest path between the node of the destination records and the node for the Omaha region using OSMnx. After creating the routes, I also estimated the emissions to bring the food to Omaha.

## [Timeseries Rolling Correlation Plot](https://github.com/neillinehan/NeilLinehanPortfolio/blob/main/rolling_correlation.ipynb)
This code was developed during my time as a Research Assistant at UNL. The goal was to visualize relationships between time-series signals, particularly how crop light signatures might change in relation to each other throughout a growing season. I created a function to display colored rectangles behind time-series plots, indicating the correlation strength between two variables at a chosen window size. The function takes a pandas DataFrame with a datetime index, calculates the rolling correlation, and uses these values to color-code the plot, offering an intuitive visualization of how the relationship between the two variables evolves. The accompanying notebook includes a demonstration with sample data, making it easy for others to adapt and use for their own time-series analysis.

## [Wavelets for Irregularly Sampled data](https://github.com/neillinehan/NeilLinehanPortfolio/blob/main/wavelets_for_irregular_data.ipynb)
During my tenure at UNL, I analyzed data from an ultraspectral spectrometer that collected data approximately every minute. I say 'approximately' because the actual duration was dependent on how much light the sensor had received during its integration time. The result was irregularly sampled data, one of the most common data problems and one of the least addressed. Most data analysis simply aggregates the data at a larger time window; however, in this specific case, that may have entailed losing out on seeing some very time-sensitive plant photosynthesis relationships. So I turned to the literature and attempted to build wavelets for irregularly sampled data. It was a daunting task, to say the least, and I soon came upon the issue of memory. I ultimately wasn't successful in building a final product; however, I did learn a lot about wavelets and signal processing in general along the way. In the code, I generate Difference of Gaussian wavelets and analyze their properties.
